.\" @(#)sifdecode v1.0 01/2013;
.TH sifdecoder 1 "10 Sep 2025"
.SH NAME
sifdecoder \- SIF-decoding script (meson version).
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsifdecoder\fP [\-sp] [\-qp] [\-h] [\-o \fI0|1\fP]
[\-f] [\-b] [\-a \fI1|2\fP]
[\-s \fI0|1|2|3\fP]
[\-st \fI1|2|3\fP]
[\-show] [-suffix] [\-param
\fIname=value\fP[\fI,name=value...\fP]] [\-force]
\fIproblem[.SIF]\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsifdecoder\fP applies the SIF decoder to the problem \fIproblem.SIF\fP
to produce the OUTSDIF.d file and the problem-dependant Fortan
subroutines, ELFUN.f, GROUP.f, RANGE.f and possibly EXTER.f.
It can be conveniently called from the command line with
the \-h, \-o, \-show and \-param options. Other options are
useful when \fIsifdecoder\fP is called by other interfaces which
require the decoding of a SIF file, as for instance a CUTEst
interface.
.LP
.SH sifdecoder Options
You can start sifdecoder with the following options:
.TP 5
.BI \-sp
Decode the problem for use with the single precision tools. The default is to
decode the problem for use with the double precision tools. This will add a 
suffix _s to the names of all generated fortran files.
.TP
.BI \-qp
Decode the problem for use with the quadruple precision tools. The default is to
decode the problem for use with the double precision tools. This will add a 
suffix _q to the names of all generated fortran files.
.TP
.B \-h
Print a short help message.
.TP
.BI \-o " 0|1"
Regulate the output level of \fIsifdecoder.\fP Verbose mode is \fB-o\fP 1,
silent mode is \fB-o\fP 0. Silent mode is the default.
.TP
.BI \-f
Use automatic differentiation in Forward mode.
.TP
.BI \-b
Use automatic differentiation in Backward mode.
.TP
.BI \-a " 1|2"
\-a 1 uses the older HSL automatic differentiation package AD01
and \-a 2 uses the newer HSL automatic differentiation package
AD02. Using AD02 is the default.
.TP
.BI \-s " 0|1|2|3"
Specify the rough size of problem that will be decoded. This is used for
array initialization and although not crucial, it may lead to efficiencies
if set correctly. Set \-s 0 is for debugging, \-s 1 is for small problems
of up to approximately 100 variables and constraints,
\-s 2 is for medium-sized problems
of up to approximately 10000 variables and constraints, and
\-s 3 is for larger problems. Setting \-s too large may cause memory
allocation errors on modest computers.
The default is for meedium-sized problems.
.TP
.BI \-st " 1|2|3"
Specifies the starting point vector to be used if there is more than one.
Any value outside the actual number of starting vectors will be interpreted
as 1, and this is the default.
.TP
.BI \-show
displays possible parameter settings for problem[.SIF]. Other options
are ignored.
.TP
.BI \-suffix
add _problem as a suffix to all files generated, where problem is the name 
of the SIF problem (see below).
.TP
.BI \-param
Cast problem[.SIF] against explicit parameter settings. Several
parameter settings may be given as a comma-separated list following
\-param or using several \-param flags. Use \fIsifdecoder -show problem\fP
to view possible settings. If a setting is not allowed in the SIF
file, no action is taken unless \fI \-force \fP is present.
.TP
.BI \-force
Forces the setting of the parameters named using \fI \-param \fP to
the given values, even if those values are not predefined in the SIF
file.
.TP
.I problem
\fIproblem.SIF\fP is the name of the file containing the SIF
information on the problem to be solved.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads for mathematical optimization\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

