.\" @(#)sifdecode v1.0 01/2013;
.TH sifdecoder 1 "23 Jan 2013"
.SH NAME
sifdecoder \- SIF-decoding script.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsifdecoder\fP [\-A \fIarch\fP] [\-sp] [\-h] [\-o \fI0|1\fP] [-m]
[\-f] [\-b] [\-a \fI1|2\fP]
[\-p \fI1|2|3\fP]
[\-s \fI0|1|2|3\fP]
[\-sp]
[\-st \fI1|2|3\fP]
[\-show] [\-param
\fIname=value\fP[\fI,name=value...\fP]] [\-force]
\fIproblem[.SIF]\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsifdecoder\fP applies the SIF decoder to the problem \fIproblem.SIF\fP
to produce the OUTSDIF.d file and the problem-dependant Fortan
subroutines, ELFUN.f, GROUP.f, RANGE.f and possibly EXTER.f.
It can be conveniently called from the command line with
the \-A, \-h, \-o, \-m, \-show and \-param options. Other options are
useful when \fIsifdecoder\fP is called by other interfaces which
require the decoding of a SIF file, as for instance a CUTEst
interface.
.LP
.SH sifdecoder Options
You can start sifdecoder with the following options:
.TP 5
.BI \-A " arch"
Run the decoder using the architecture \fIarch\fP; the architeture
is a string of the form machine.system.compiler as specified in the
directory $SIFDECODE/versions. If no \-A option is given, a valid
architecture given by the environment variable $MYARCH will be
used, but if $MYARCH is invalid or empty the decoder will terminate.
.TP
.B \-sp
Run sifdecoder in single-precision mode, if available.
Double precision is the default.
.TP
.B \-h
Print a short help message.
.TP
.BI \-o " 0|1"
Regulate the output level of \fIsifdecoder.\fP Verbose mode is \fB-o\fP 1,
silent mode is \fB-o\fP 0. Silent mode is the default.
.TP
.B \-m
check for memory leaks when possible using valgrind(1).
.TP
.BI \-c
check the derivatves that are provided in ELFUN.f and GROUP.f by comparing
the values against finite-diffrence approximations; any significant differences
will be reported.
.TP
.BI \-f
Use automatic differentiation in Forward mode.
.TP
.BI \-b
Use automatic differentiation in Backward mode.
.TP
.BI \-a " 1|2"
\-a 1 uses the older HSL automatic differentiation package AD01
and \-a 2 uses the newer HSL automatic differentiation package
AD02. Using AD02 is the default.
.TP
.BI \-p " 1|2|3"
Specifies the package that the decoded problem is intended for.
\-p 1 is for LANCELOT, \-p 2 is for BARIA and \-p 3 is for CUTEst.
The default is to decode for CUTEst.
.TP
.BI \-s " 0|1|2|3"
Specify the rough size of problem that will be decoded. This is used for
array initialization and although not crucial, it may lead to efficiencies
if set correctly. Set \-s 0 is for debugging, \-s 1 is for small problems
of up to approximately 100 variables and constraints,
\-s 2 is for medium-sized problems
of up to approximately 10000 variables and constraints, and
\-s 3 is for larger problems. Setting \-s too large may cause memory
allocation errors on modest computers.
The default is for meedium-sized problems.
.TP
.BI \-sp
Decode the problem for use with the single precision tools. The default is to
decode the problem for use with the double precision tools.
.TP
.BI \-st " 1|2|3"
Specifies the starting point vector to be used if there is more than one.
Any value outside the actual number of starting vectors will be interpreted
as 1, and this is the default.
.TP
.BI \-show
displays possible parameter settings for problem[.SIF]. Other options
are ignored.
.TP
.BI \-param
Cast problem[.SIF] against explicit parameter settings. Several
parameter settings may be given as a comma-separated list following
\-param or using several \-param flags. Use \fIsifdecoder -show problem\fP
to view possible settings. If a setting is not allowed in the SIF
file, no action is taken unless \fI \-force \fP is present.
.TP
.BI \-force
Forces the setting of the parameters named using \fI \-param \fP to
the given values, even if those values are not predefined in the SIF
file.
.TP
.I problem
\fIproblem.SIF\fP is the name of the file containing the SIF
information on the problem to be solved.
.LP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB SIFDECODE
Directory containing SIFDecode.
.TP
.SB MYARCH
 The default architecture.
.TP
.SB MASTSIF
A pointer to the directory containing the CUTEst/SIFDecode problems
collection. If this variable is not set, the current directory is
searched for \fIproblem.SIF\fP. If it is set, the current directory is
searched first, and if \fIproblem.SIF\fP is not found there, $MASTSIF
is searched.
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads for mathematical optimization\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

valgrind(1).
